# BIODICAPT-SDM-R-V0

## Overview
This project is dedicated to exploring Optimal Experimental Designs (OEDs) for 
the BIODICAPT project.

The BIODICAPT project and the methods deployed for OED exploration are described  
in the `BIODICAPT_model.md` file.

## Data sources
This project uses the following databases :

- [CORINE Land Cover 2018](https://land.copernicus.eu/en/products/corine-land-cover/clc2018#download): raster of European land cover with 100m resolution
- [CHELSA-monthly](https://www.chelsa-climate.org/datasets/chelsa_monthly): raster of world climate data with kilometre-scale resolution.

## Structure
This repository is structured as follows:

```bash
.
├── Scripts
├── R
├── man
├── resources
│   ├── raw_data
│   └── transformed_data
└── outputs
    ├── figures
    └── results
```

Description:

- The `Scripts` folder contains the main scripts to run.
- The `R` folder contains the functions of this repository.
- The `man` folder is automatically generated and contains the description of the functions.
- The `resources` folder contains the input datasets (if empty, run `0-import_datasets.R` for instructions).
- The `outputs` folder contains the results and figures generated by the main scripts.


## Usage

### Get repository on your machine
Run `git clone https://github.com/LL-mnhn/BIODICAPT-SDM-R-V0.git` in your 
terminal to clone this repository.

### Scripts
In R, run :

- `0-import_datasets.R`: to fetch/get instructions to manually download datasets.
- `1-simulate_data.R`: to generate presence-absence data based on a theoretical model.
- `2-model_data.R`: to analyse data generated by the previous script.
- `3-figures.R`: to visualize/save main figures about the project.

To tune parameters, you can change the ones at the beginning of each of these 
files. However, make sure to only modify those under the `CAN BE MODIFIED` tag.

## Progress

- [X] Fetch data
  - [X] Get publicly available dataset
  - [X] Get BIODICAPT data
  - [ ] Get 500 ENI data
- [X] Pre-process of datasets
- [ ] Anonymise location of agricultural lands (to publish 'preprocessed' folder)
- [ ] Simple model...
  - [X] Using frequentist approach 
  - [ ] Using Bayesian approach
  - [ ] Using deep learning ?
- [ ] Make and compare theoretical OEDs
- [ ] Complexify model for pratical application


## Contact

Feel free to contact me at [loic.lehnhoff@mnhn.fr](mailto:loic.lehnhoff@mnhn.fr) 
for any question regarding this project.